Add authentication set up instructions in readme (#812)
PhilanthropyDataCommons/service: README.md

Alternatively, one may set `LOG_LEVEL` in the `.env` file.

### Authentication and Authorization

A valid Bearer JSON Web Token (Bearer JWT) is required in requests to the PDC service. The PDC officially reccomends using [KeyCloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) as the authentication provider, but supports any valid Bearer JWT provider. Please refer to [the relevant documentation for setup and configuration](https://www.keycloak.org/guides#getting-started)

> See `.env.example` for documentation on the necessary environment variables for Keycloak(or chosen authentication provider)

Reviewer: I see a minor typo, missing space.

#### An example with a Keycloak authentication and Swagger-UI

We use Swagger to generate an interactive api interface as the default route for the service.
From the Keycloak admin interface, e.g. https://my-host/admin:

1. Add a realm e.g. "pdc" (avoid spaces in the name).
2. Within the realm just added in step (1) add a client e.g. "pdc-service", with Client authentication off and Authorization off:

>    - Standard flow Checked,

Reviewer: Ah, I see. This partially explains why it would work without adding a second client.

In our production Keycloak instance, we have this unchecked for `pdc-service` and checked for `pdc-openapi-docs`. On reflection, it has probably been a while, a long while, since anybody used the `pdc-service` client to get a session. So I have no objection to a single client for development purposes after all.

   - Direct access grants unchecked,
   - Implicit flow unchecked,
   - Service accounts roles unchecked,
   - OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant (optional), and
   - OIDC CIBA Grant unchecked.
3. In the settings for the client added in step (2), set the root URL and Home URL to the URL of the PDC service (not the auth service). [For development purposes, all callback routes can be authorized](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/23.0.7/authorization_services/#_resource_overview)
   - `/*`
4. In the settings for the client added in step (2), add a Web origins of `+`.
5. Within the realm, add a user, e.g. `test-user`. Set a password for this user.
6. Set your environment variables (see `.env.example`)
7. Run the service repository with `npm run dev`.
8. Go to swagger ui page at `http://localhost:3001/`

> 9. Click "Authorize" in the top left and click the "Authorize" button in the popup

Reviewer: Do you have to change the client name in this prompt in order for it to work? E.g. to `pdc-service`?

Alternatively, one may set `LOG_LEVEL` in the `.env` file.

### Authentication and Authorization

A valid Bearer JSON Web Token (Bearer JWT) is required in requests to the PDC service. The PDC officially reccomends using [KeyCloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) as the authentication provider, but supports any valid Bearer JWT provider. Please refer to [the relevant documentation for setup and configuration](https://www.keycloak.org/guides#getting-started)

> The relevant authorization enviroment variables as they appear in the `.env.example` file are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The relevant authorization environment variables as they appear in the `.env.example` file are:
```

> - `AUTH_SERVER_ISSUER`: the URL for the issuer (this is the "realm" URL in Keycloak terminology).

Reviewer 2: What do you think about moving this explanation to the `.env.example` file itself as a comment before the relevant env variable?

Also, I generally suggest avoiding the documentation of specific env variables in readme documentation since it means you're documenting in two places (or, NOT documenting in the most important place, which is in the `.env.example`). 

If you agree, then you would remove the list of env vars from here and instead make sure they're in a section in the template, and you could just say something like "see `.env.example` for documentation on the necessary environment variables for Keycloak"

- `OPENAPI_DOCS_AUTH_CLIENT_ID`: the public identifier for the app ("Client ID" field in Keycloack).

#### An example with a Keycloak authentication and Swagger-UI

We use Swagger to generate an interactive api interface as the default route for the service.
From the Keycloak admin interface, e.g. https://my-host/admin:

1. Add a realm e.g. "pdc" (avoid spaces in the name).
2. Within the realm just added in step (1) add a client e.g. "pdc-service", with Client authentication off and Authorization off:
   - Standard flow unchecked,
   - Direct access grants unchecked,
   - Implicit flow unchecked,
   - Service accounts roles unchecked,
   - OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant (optional), and
   - OIDC CIBA Grant unchecked.
3. In the settings for the client added in step (2), set the root URL and Home URL to the URL of the PDC service (not the auth service). [For development purposes, all callback routes can be authorized](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/23.0.7/authorization_services/#_resource_overview)
   - `/*`
4. In the settings for the client added in step (2), add a Web origins of `+`.

> 5. With in the realm, add a user, e.g. `test-user`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Within the realm, add a user, e.g. `test-user`.
```

The relevant authorization enviroment variables as they appear in the `.env.example` file are:

- `AUTH_SERVER_ISSUER`: the URL for the issuer (this is the "realm" URL in Keycloak terminology).
- `OPENAPI_DOCS_AUTH_CLIENT_ID`: the public identifier for the app ("Client ID" field in Keycloack).

#### An example with a Keycloak authentication and authorization service

From the Keycloak admin interface, e.g. https://my-host/admin:

1. Add a realm e.g. "pdc" (avoid spaces in the name).
2. Within the realm just added in step (1) add a client e.g. "pdc-service", with Client authentication off and Authorization off:
   - Standard flow unchecked,
   - Direct access grants unchecked,
   - Implicit flow unchecked,
   - Service accounts roles unchecked,
   - OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant (optional), and
   - OIDC CIBA Grant unchecked.
3. In the settings for the client added in step (2), set the root URL and Home URL to the URL of the PDC service (not the auth service). Add redirect URIs:
   - `/applicants/*`
   - `/applications/*`
   - `/applicationForms/*`

>    - `/canonicalFields/*`

Reviewer 2: Hmm -- I'm surprised about how coupled these paths are to our API.  This one in particular refers to an endpoint that doesn't exist any more (as does `/applicants`), and we're missing some new ones (`/organizations` and `/baseFields`)

Do we need these redirect URIs at all?  What happens if we skip them entirely and only use the root URL?  Or just have `/*`?

It would be great to not need to have developers manually update keycloak config every time we add a new API endpoint.

Author: Agreed! I suppose I was thinking about these paths as generic examples, but that doesn't really make any sense

   - `/proposals/*`
   - `/proposalVersions/*`
4. In the settings for the client added in step (2), add a Web origins of `+`.
5. With in the realm, add a user, e.g. `test-user`.

> 6. Log in as the test user.

Reviewer 2: What is the use case in mind for steps 6, 7, and 8?

If the use case is a developer making API calls, they could use the swagger-generated page (e.g. [https://api.philanthropydatacommons.org](https://api.philanthropydatacommons.org)) which handles auth for them.  If the use case is a script or application making API calls then we don't want them to have to manually log in as a human in order to interact with the API, and instead we should provide instructions on creating a new client for their application which gives them a token / secret pair that they can use to avoid an auth flow that requires manual log in.
